---
tags:
  - Analysis
---
### Analysis
There are textual, subtextual, and meta-textual emphasis on [[Onomastics]] in East of Eden. In a very early chapter of part one, John Steinbeck takes a moment to frame its importance by discussing the naming of cities and regions within California. He posits a few manners of naming, starting with the naming of cities after saints and other impersonal, faith-based options. Next, he discusses names that are more specific to the land itself, like geographical features. Then he describes instances where a city may be named for reasons lost to time, perhaps some event or dispute between people long forgotten. See also [[Impermanence]]. I believe Steinbeck notes these as his favorite instances, which is funny considering his intentional naming is all faith-based. 

An unacknowledged instance begins with Cyrus's sons Adam and Charles Trask, two sons who share the beginning letter of their first names with [[Cain and Abel]]. Their main point of conflict surrounding the polarizing levels of satisfaction their gifts draw from their father along with their personal temperaments separate this from coincidence. When it comes times to name Adam Trask's children, Samual Hamilton references the very same story to help name his nameless sons. They too join the pattern of C- and A- names with Caleb and Aron. See also [[Nominative Determinism]].

This pattern begins to beg a question as the story continues: does a man's name determine his life? Or more generally, do we have free will? Charles is depicted as a wholly anatagonistic presence, second only to Cathy, and only seems to show any hesitance when he realizes his powers would fail in front of Adam. On the other hand, Cal is certainly birthed with some level of this evil but prays to God to make him a better person. This question begins with the names of the characters but is furthered by the novel's other concepts, like faith and free will.

Adam Trask is of course named specifically after the first human made by god who, surprisingly, plays a rather passive role in the book of Genesis. He is ordained by god to grant names to everything within the garden of Eden, to rule over Eve, and to keep and till God's creation. But what adam experiences, the creation of Eve via his rib, the eating of the fruit, the casting from earth, these are all things that happen *to* adam, not *because* of Adam. He acts as an empty vessel until he eats the fruit from the tree of knowledge. Isn't this precisely what Adam Trask experiences? The wrath of Charles and Cathy, the joining of the military, the vagabond chapter of his life, the inheritence, even Samuel beating Adam back into shape is acted *upon* Adam Trask. This is perhaps another conflict between pre-determination through nomenclature and free will.
### Quotes
